welcome again to it doesn't take a
genius conversation with introspective
perspectives and pithy points of view
here are your hosts my friends max and
marty i think that's mark and mike yeah
whatever
marshall ramsey
i usually don't get to say the first
introduction but
nobody cares but i happen to be
recording today usually it's you today
i'm recording
because you are
off-site that's right you may notice
it's not my usual background i'm out
here in california uh i'm in a meeting
conference in a hotel meeting room let's
just call it the four seasons
because i want to drop a name like that
and so there may be people walking in
and out you know my people will be
setting up and doing some stuff for me
so
don't mind the interruptions now with
with california do you have any uh uh
you know uh coveted requirements that
are that are going on for you there oh
this place is strict yeah if i leave
this meeting room without a mask on
there's a security guard with a with a
silver platter masks and a tongs
i'm serious if i step out this door
right now
you know six a.m in the morning i will
be tongued with a mask yes
it's crazy that's great
well it's nice that they've been able to
do it in a way that honors their own uh
values there within uh within that
luxurious hotel system so
speaking of
let's talk for a moment not about four
seasons if i can do this i i hate to do
this to your your current host but ritz
carlton we've talked about this a little
bit on um our uh
podcast in the past but i i had an
interview and we'll link to it uh in the
uh in the show notes i had an interview
that i heard uh between andy stanley on
his leadership podcast and horst
schultzy uh who was the the german who i
think he was a co-founder of ritz
carlton when they rebuilt the brand uh
in the 80s and he he was responsible for
opening the first i don't know 30 or so
of the hotels himself
interesting guy and um
he basically makes this comment that um
it's really crucial early on um to get
everybody bought into you know that
upgraded way of treating customers and
he called it a significant emotional
event he said adults don't change their
behavior unless there's a significant
emotional event
and uh so that's what we sort of want to
talk about today is is how do you how do
you do that how do you get these
significant emotional events
you mentioned that um you hear about
significant emotional events often you
started noticing them when people talk
to you
oh definitely yeah it's somebody who's
incredibly curious if you know if
somebody's talking about a big life
change that they've made
my first question is so
how did that happen right what was the
process for that and everybody you talk
to you i'll meet somebody and they'll
they'll tell me you know i've i've lost
150 pounds
you know and you know i'll be like well
so how long were you were you overweight
was the decade 10 years at least you
know i i was i was morbidly obese and so
then i always ask the the exact same
question
so what was the tipping point what was
that moment that that tipped from from
this behavior to to change your life
yeah and they 100 of the time always
have the story and they'll always share
the story and
they range from uh like this friend they
were talking about um
you know they bent down to tie their
shoes one day and when they sat back up
they were out of breath
huh yeah and and something that small
right so it doesn't have to be you know
you know in a car wreck or yeah you know
a drone strike or a meteor hit them it
was it was just that moment of
i can't live like this anymore i had had
one person tell me they were they were
trying to teach their kid to ride a bike
and they couldn't run behind the bike
and they knew something had needed to
change uh you know when you meet these
uh these exercise and these vegan types
you know and they've had a you know this
is a completely different lifestyle
at some point they'll tell you they
they had a heart attack and they lived
and but that was the that was the moment
where it tipped and i'll always ask him
so did you know before you had the heart
attack that you were supposed to be
eating healthy
and exercising and they'll go oh yeah
logically i knew this and everybody
around me was telling me all right i
think the keyword they were telling the
doctor told me my wife told me right
people at work told me my friends told
me yeah but it wasn't until i had the
the suv like the significant emotional
event uh that that that
it tipped within my mind to make a
change and do something substantially
different
i love that and uh you know it's funny
because my guess is that people
listening to this podcast will remember
those specific examples you just gave
about the bike and the tying the shoes
because they are so memorable uh they
they tug on your heartstrings they they
put you in a
in somebody else's shoes into that uh
that moment
uh and
that's probably just a good word for all
of us is you know don't
don't ignore your opportunities when you
have that significant emotional event
it's time to pause and go wait a minute
what is going on here
um
that's for personal behavior change for
people listening to this podcast they're
probably in a leadership position of
some kind
and are looking to help others change
behaviors
so that's what we sort of want to talk
about today is uh you know there's a
there's an opportunity to orchestrate
some of these significant emotional
events
uh on behalf of your team
to help them uh with a uh you know in
some cases a radical shift of of their
uh their their beliefs about what's
going on let alone their behavior
uh in that pours out of that so um so
that's what
we're we're sort of here to to quickly
hit on some things
and i i think mike the first one that we
ought to mention just to give credit to
horse schultzy is
the idea of how they do their onboarding
right when when that all happens you
know he would talk about you know early
on he would walk into this room full of
people who were going to be you know
maids
you know cleaning staff wait staff front
desk staff and he would wear a
three-piece suit
and he would say to them
you know here's what you have to
understand is we serve ladies and
gentlemen
and you are ladies and gentlemen
this organization is about ladies and
gentlemen serving ladies and gentlemen
and it was just a whole new way to think
about yourself and how you carried
yourself
um that
was
in some ways foreign to the industry the
professions that many of these people
were in so there was this two-day period
i think they still do it that way that
it's a two-day window
when you start with the organization
that you're going to have this
big
big impactful chance to reevaluate how
you even look at yourself
and then carry that forward into how you
uh interact with customers and treat
customers so there's one to get the ball
rolling
well no i think that's fantastic and i
wish i could remember the book it might
have been the dan heath book
where he called it he said that you know
you must create for organizations and
teams a moment of tripping over the
truth
that's
significant emotional event but one of
my one of my favorites uh you know i had
i had this uh automotive dealership i
was working with and they wanted to they
wanted the everybody who touched the car
to take better care of the car and to
and to keep the customer in mind and so
they had a they had a customer come in
it was a good customer they were really
close with them and they asked the
customer
during the course of their vehicle
maintenance to sit in the passenger seat
so he just sat there and so so
the guy came up you know to put the
plastic in the seat and the guy's
sitting there and and it was amazing
that that everybody treated the car
better right because
the customer is sitting right here this
is not just a car
this is their car this person's personal
vehicle and and i'm touching it they see
me opening the hood wiping it making
sure we didn't get any dirt on it yeah
right there was just there was this
whole it changed the whole emotion about
yeah yeah this is just not you know
number 27
you know for the day right this is a
human being's pride and joy and
something that he he trades his time for
to get money for and then pays for this
vehicle well and you know you could just
you could keep doing that right like you
you wouldn't have to um
uh you know make every customer go
through that but you could introduce
like let's say spot deliveries you know
a car gets sold we need to go right now
get it ready we you know this wasn't
something we had prepped ahead of time
it was just you know on the spot
we sold this car
we've got to go detail it clean it up
you could page your
detail staff your your cleaners to come
up somebody to come up and introduce
them this is mr smith he just bought
this brand new blah blah blah and we'd
like you to get this car ready for
delivery he's going through the
paperwork now
shake hands look people in the eye oh
that's a human being it's not a car
so that's a great one and it's
humanizing i guess there's the point is
that it's humanizing the whole
experience
yeah you do something off you know so
many times that yeah it becomes a little
mechanical a little routine
and we forget that there's a human being
right that's it
like every doctor that's ordered the
phrase minor surgery
there is no such thing as miners for me
it's mine i've only done it once yeah
i'm only about to do it once it's a big
deal right so i'd appreciate it maybe
you've done it 2 000 times and that's
one of the reasons i'm talking to you
yeah but i want you to behave
like it's the most important one that
you've ever done yeah that's so hard to
do there's a behavior change right like
that thing
you know uh uh any any business that
you're in that people don't experience
very often which would include
automotive purchases right most people
don't do that very often and when they
come back in they're a little
timid and yeah you this is the you know
50th car you've sold financing and
insurance products on this month but
it's this guy's first in five years
so
that's a behavior change to think that
way
well and you think about right as the
leader you can organize you can
orchestrate these things yeah so i i was
leading this team and it was it was a
big team of people and they but they
were spread out all around the state and
so we only got together occasionally so
we went to the
you know the team was formed we went to
this training and and we were flying
back i was working with the travel agent
and she says all right you got two
choices when you're coming back from the
conference you got a 45-minute layover
or you got a three-hour layover which
one do you want
and i said i'll take the three she goes
well that's just nuts nobody wants to
spend three hours in an airport i'm like
trust me on this so they all go to
training and they all went to different
training so each each of their offices
had you know different training
so we all flew out together and now i
got this team that's incredibly excited
learned a whole bunch of new stuff
and they're trapped in an airport
together with no distractions yeah
so they all just talked and bonded and
yeah what'd you learn oh man i learned
to say we really got to try this and
they were and they were you know and so
i had three hours of of this incredible
team building moment where they were it
is truly where the team gelled that's
where it happened and everything after
that became much easier yeah and so but
but the logical thing would be you know
they're going to be away from home and
they're going to be tired get them home
as quick as possible
but right
i never told them we had the option for
a 45 minute
yeah so
yeah i don't know if that's a good thing
or bad but but i knew that they would
want to talk and it would be and because
soon as they as soon as we got home they
all went to their different locations
right they were hours apart
they weren't going to have that
interaction unless i created that moment
where there was going to be this
emotional sharing of and excitement yeah
you know i just i just knew it would
work okay well this conversation has
already gone a direction i didn't think
it would go which is exactly what i
hoped would happen
but uh
new higher orientation onboarding
um tripping over the truth
as an overall principle
and that's often going to happen when
you spend time with human beings could
be the customer could be co-workers in a
informal setting but that's a that's a
moment of opportunity it brings me the
other big one that i thought of
was um hard conversations
uh you know the the manager with the
employee um it is a significant
emotional event when you give negative
feedback especially for somebody who's
been doing it you know a certain way a
long time
um or there's there's been some blow up
or something that's that's caused
tension
and to have the courage to go into that
conversation oh i know it's hard um uh
you know you don't know what the
fallout's gonna be it's risky i mean
it's just risky hopefully it goes well
but it's risky um but having that
conversation
um
can change people's lives i mean it
could really it could alter a career
path for somebody who
hears what you're saying
and takes it to heart
um
so i just i just think that's a big deal
to worth talking about is the one-on-one
hard conversation
yeah i heard a story just the other day
where where the
the manager he had a sales team and one
guy on the sales team was was pushing
everybody around and
he brought the sales person in and and
he and he just looked at him and said
listen
you're a bully
in every sense of the word you are a
bully on this team
and yeah i got to talk to that guy later
and he said that was the best thing
anybody had ever told him
right he
he thought he was tough he thought he
was defending his his territory right
but he did not
in any way shape or form want to be a
bully
yeah and that was the moment where he
changed to
all right i i help everybody else
come along and you know everything will
get better here i'll do better they'll
do better the store will do better we'll
all do better
but somebody had to look him in the eyes
and say
you're a bully and and let that
emotional event happen just let that
person soak that in yeah just just a
dagger to the heart i mean that that got
right to the
to the to the core of what was going on
there
well it goes to something i've been
working on which is the that's saying
that clarity is kindness yeah
and so as a as a is on the disc profile
and i i like an indirect approach right
and sometimes the nicest thing you can
do to somebody is tell them the truth in
very blunt terms right and say listen
you you've got maybe two months here and
if this and this doesn't happen
i don't you're not going to be here
anymore
and let people decide right is that is
that enough of an emotional tip for them
to do the things that we've been talking
about for months and months and months
you know and trying to get them to do
i i'm going to tell on myself my mother
one time when i was in high school i had
um
i was i'm i'm an eye too is on disc and
uh and i love having friends and i had
lots of friends
and i had some friends that were not
good friends and i can remember a moment
in my teens
where my mother
looked at me and said i know you're
hanging out with these people for xyz
but it's for xyz and not the people
that's sort of a prostitute
right
boing you know
uh
and just called me a prostitute my mom
just called me a hooker yeah yeah
and and she was and she was right of
course you know that it doesn't work
unless you're tripping over truth you
know if you're tripping over you know
somebody's accusation it's not gonna fly
and you probably ought to be prepared to
have some facts to back up you know
here's the observations i'm making that
lead me to this conclusion
but having said that you know the sucker
punch
the the gut punch of my mother saying
that yeah it changed you know it changed
uh uh
how i uh operated and made life better
for me
um so i i so agree with that yeah and
and we do
you know and sometimes people do it
inadvertently
so how many times have you heard the
story of
you know i had a guy and he told me i
couldn't do it
yeah
you know you know i you know that
example from my life you know i i i
wasn't a stellar high school student
i got to the guidance counselor the
guidance counselor looked me square in
the eye and said i truly believe that
college would be a huge waste of time
and money for you
[Laughter]
well
guess who i invited to my college
graduation party
oh yeah he got an invite
you know but yeah it was that you know
and in the roundabout way he was saying
yeah you haven't applied yourself yeah
you know there's more to to you than
we know that you know that
and yeah so so it was
and you hear a lot of people say that
yeah yeah you know somebody told them
they couldn't or they weren't and all of
a sudden that created the emotional
energy
to create a change well we're we we keep
coming back to sort of these origin
moments and um there are definitely
significant emotional events and and i
would argue that this is right in line
with our earlier uh podcast episode
about building a cathedral and we'll
link to that in the notes you know
thinking through you know what you know
what is it about us that that makes
people want to be a part of us
um
that is part and parcel probably with
that origin story if they get that you
know if they get what got us here
um they're they're probably the people
you want on your team oh yeah yeah if
you're emotionally bought into the the
the founders story the origin story
yeah you're already going the right
direction you may need some some some
minor guidance but you've already got
the number one thing which is the the
enthusiasm the desire to contribute to
the story yeah right i want to what's
that walt whitman line right and you can
contribute a verse
yeah
and so so yeah i heard the story the
story is ongoing and i get to write a
little piece of the next chapter i like
that it's incredibly emotional yeah
well we don't want to beat a dead horse
here um you know significant emotional
event
uh tripping over the truth
uh putting humanity into some of these
things that we're trying to do that are
behavior changes whether it's a
customer's perspective
whether it's
you know informal time with with
co-workers
there are there are these moments
that
give you that chance to get the
enthusiasm to get that
emotional uh fuel
behind the behavior change
there's probably about 5
346 more that would be my guess just off
the top of my head thank you mister
yeah i'm just trying yeah just trying
but we'd love to have your uh thoughts
in the comments um of uh what are what
are some of the other you know sort of
big moments
that allow you to have that significant
emotional event um and again if you're
in leadership you can orchestrate some
of this that's part of your job is to
sort of design the ecosystem to to to
engineer the environment so that your
people get this it's such a blessing to
them uh so we hope we're encouraging you
uh to do just that
fantastic and speaking of encouragement
that's what our significantly emotional
announcer has to say he's emotional
isn't it he's emotional
that guy
and that
i guess
is that
it doesn't take a genius
no rights reserved nothing trademarked
copyrighted or even original
feel free to give it to anyone anytime
using any and all media formats
warning mark and mike may or may not
make another one i'm your announcer and
i did not get paid a nickel to do this
they won't even let me tell you my name
so until next time if there is a next
time
stay safe
be well
[Music]
that's good enough